## Solar-Planner

A web application to calculate and design a houshold rooftop solar power plant. Built in front-end : react, back-end : Node, Express and DB : PostgreSQL 


## Features 

It takes three inputs from the user as:
- Daily units consumed : monthly units consumed / no. of days in month from user monthly bill
- Type of solar pannels : crystaline (for all purpose) or thin film one (for areas near the sea)
- Power range of the solar panels : from predefined range as per mentioned in data.

Calculates and provides the following as output:

# Possible combinations with
- EnergyPerDay
- Power Plant Capacity in kW 
- Inverter estimated rating in kW
- Operations loss
- Input power to the inverter in kW
- AC power output from inverter
- Power needed by load in kW 

# For each combination:
- Name and rating of panels and inverter.
- Total number of panels needed.
- Total number of panels in series 
- Total number of panels in parallel
- Combination total price.

## Getting Started with Front end side React App

This project was bootstrapped with Create React App.

Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

## `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.
Open http://localhost:3000 to view it in your browser.

The page will reload when you make changes.
You may also see any lint errors in the console.

## `npm test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.
See the section about running tests for more information.

## `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the build folder.
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about deployment for more information.

## `npm run eject`

Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you eject, you can't go back!

If you aren't satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can eject at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except eject will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you're on your own.

You don't have to ever use eject. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn't feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn't be useful if you couldn't customize it when you are ready for it.


## Starting with the Back-end side app:

# Project Setup

Create your own copy of this repo using the Use This Template button, ideally using the name of your project. The repo should be marked Public
Verify that the skeleton code now shows up in your repo on GitHub, you should be automatically redirected
Clone your copy of the repo to your dev machine

# Getting Started

Create the .env by using .env.example as a reference: cp .env.example .env
Update the .env file with your correct local information
username: labber
password: labber
database: solarapp
# Install dependencies: npm i
# Fix to binaries for sass: npm rebuild node-sass
# Reset database: npm run db:reset
Check the db folder to see what gets created and seeded in the SDB
# Run the server: npm run local
Note: nodemon is used, so you should not have to restart your server
Visit http://localhost:8080/
# Warnings & Tips

Do not edit the layout.css file directly, it is auto-generated by layout.scss
Split routes into their own resource-based file names, as demonstrated with users.js and widgets.js
Split database schema (table definitions) and seeds (inserts) into separate files, one per table. See db folder for pre-populated examples.
Use the npm run db:reset command each time there is a change to the database schema or seeds.
It runs through each of the files, in order, and executes them against the database.
Note: you will lose all newly created (test) data each time this is run, since the schema files will tend to DROP the tables and recreate them.
# Dependencies

Node 10.x or above
NPM 5.x or above
PG 6.x
